Document the sidecar.istio.io/statsInclusionPrefixes annotation (#3581)
istio/istio.io: content/help/ops/telemetry/envoy-stats/index.md

---
title: Envoy Statistics
description: Fine-grained control of Envoy statistics.
weight: 95
---

The Envoy proxy keeps detailed statistics about network traffic.

Envoy's statistics only cover the traffic for a particular Envoy instance.  See
[Telemetry](/docs/tasks/telemetry/) for persistent per-service Istio telemetry.  The

> statistics recorded by Envoy can provide more information about specific pod instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
statistics the envoy proxies record can provide more information about specific pod instances.
```

> To see the statistics for a pod,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see the statistics for a pod:
```

```
kubectl exec -it $POD  -c istio-proxy  -- sh -c 'curl localhost:15000/stats'

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```
{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -it $POD  -c istio-proxy  -- sh -c 'curl localhost:15000/stats'
{{< /text >}}
```

Use this?

> See [the Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/cluster_manager/cluster_stats) for an explanation of the data recorded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [the Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/cluster_manager/cluster_stats)
for an explanation of the data recorded.
```

By default, Istio configures Envoy to record minimal statistics.  The default collection

> keys are `cluster_manager`, `listener_manager`, `http_mixer_filter`, `tcp_mixer_filter`, `server`, and `cluster.xds-grpc`.  To see the Envoy settings for collection use

Reviewer 2: for the collection

> keys are `cluster_manager`, `listener_manager`, `http_mixer_filter`, `tcp_mixer_filter`, `server`, and `cluster.xds-grpc`.  To see the Envoy settings for statistics data collection use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keys are:

- `cluster_manager`
- `listener_manager`
- `http_mixer_filter`
- `tcp_mixer_filter`
- `server`
- `cluster.xds-grpc`

To see the Envoy settings for statistics data collection use
```

> `istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` following [these instructions](https://istio.io/help/ops/traffic-management/proxy-cmd/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`istioctl proxy-config bootstrap` and follow the [deep dive into Envoy configuration](/help/ops/traffic-management/proxy-cmd/#deep-dive-into-envoy-configuration).
```

> Consult the `statsMatcher` JSON element.

Reviewer: This line lacks context. When would a reader consult the element?

> Configure Envoy to record statistics for inbound or outbound traffic by adding the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure Envoy to record statistics for inbound or outbound traffic, add the
```

> `sidecar.istio.io/statsInclusionPrefixes` annotation to the pod template in a Kubernetes Deployment.

Reviewer 3: nit: s/Deployment/\`Deployment\`

> `sidecar.istio.io/statsInclusionPrefixes` annotation to the pod template in a Kubernetes `Deployment`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sidecar.istio.io/statsInclusionPrefixes` annotation to the pod template in the Kubernetes deployment.
```

> Add `cluster.outbound` for gather data about outbound traffic activity and circuit breaking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `cluster.outbound` annotation to gather data about outbound traffic activity and circuit breaking.
```

> To gather data on inbound traffic add `listener`.  A sample annotation including `cluster.outbound`

Reviewer 3: nit: s/traffic/traffic,

> To gather data on inbound traffic, add `listener`.  A sample annotation including `cluster.outbound`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To gather data on inbound traffic, add the `listener` annotation.  The following sample annotation includes `cluster.outbound`
```

> can be seen in _samples/httpbin/sample-client/fortio-deploy.yaml_.

Reviewer 3: Use a real link to the file instead?

Author: Do you suggest a raw link to github master branch, like https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/httpbin/sample-client/fortio-deploy.yaml ?

Reviewer 3: Never mind, leave it as-is. I think other docs just indent the text as you have.

Reviewer 2: There are a bunch of guidelines for contributing to the docs that you should make sure to follow:

https://deploy-preview-3581--preliminary-istio.netlify.com/about/contribute/creating-and-editing-pages/#linking-to-other-pages

> can be seen in `samples/httpbin/sample-client/fortio-deploy.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{< text_file file="/samples/httpbin/sample-client/fortio-deploy.yaml" syntax="yaml">}}
```

Author: This suggestion gives me ```
Error: Error building site: "/site/content/help/ops/telemetry/envoy-stats/index.md:42:1": failed to render shortcode "text_file": failed to process shortcode: "/site/layouts/shortcodes/text_file.html:7:13": execute of template failed: template: shortcodes/text_file.html:7:13: executing "shortcodes/text_file.html" at <readFile (.Get "file...>: error calling readFile: stat /site/content_zh/samples/httpbin/sample-client/fortio-deploy.yaml: no such file or directory
```  I will try `<github_file>` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be seen in [fortio-deploy.yaml]({{< github_file >}}/samples/httpbin/sample-client/fortio-deploy.yaml`).
```

> You can cause Envoy to gather less data than usual by overriding the defaults.  Use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can override the Envoy defaults to gather less data than usual.  Use the
```

> `sidecar.istio.io/statsInclusionPrefixes: cluster_manager,listener_manager` for the least possible statistics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sidecar.istio.io/statsInclusionPrefixes: cluster_manager,listener_manager` key/value pair
to collect the least statistics possible
```

> collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
